.TH "nec" "1" "" "acq manual" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
nec \- test for necessary conditions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]nec\f[] [\f[I]OPTIONS\f[]] [\f[I]condition\f[]
[\f[I]condition\f[]\ ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[I]condition\f[] is a causal condition from the dataset.
Terms must be upcased or downcased (to test negation), as appropriate.
If no causal conditions are specified, test all combinations.
.PP
Complex causal conditions joined by Boolean addition (e.g., A+B+C) are
permitted.
Terms joined by Boolean multiplication (e.g., A*B*C) are prohibited;
instead, test each term separately.
If all terms are consistent with necessity, use theory to judge whether
the terms are jointly necessary.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-consist=\f[I]VALUE\f[]
Consistency threshold (default is 0.9)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-cov=\f[I]VALUE\f[]
Coverage threshold (default is 0.5)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-outcome=\f[I]COLUMN\f[]
Outcome column (default is last column)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-include=\f[I]COLUMNS\f[]
Include only these causal conditions (default is all)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-exclude=\f[I]COLUMNS\f[]
Don\[aq]t include these as causal conditions
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-input=\f[I]FILE\f[]
If absent, or when \f[I]FILE\f[] is \-, read standard input
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help and exit
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Output version information and exit
.RS
.RE
.PP
\f[I]VALUE\f[] is a number ranging between 0.0 and 1.0.
\f[I]COLUMNS\f[] may be specified by column position or name.
Separate multiple \f[I]COLUMNS\f[] with commas.
Mandatory arguments to long options are also mandatory for short
options.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
bq(1), concov(1), consist(1), gtt(1), suf(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Claude Rubinson <cjr\@grundrisse.org>.
