.TH "suf" "1" "" "acq manual" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
suf \- Identify sufficient conditions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]suf\f[] [\f[I]OPTIONS\f[]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Test for sufficient conditions.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Specification of Causal and Outcome Conditions
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-outcome=\f[I]COLUMN\f[]
Outcome column (default is last column)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-include=\f[I]COLUMNS\f[]
Include only these causal conditions (default is all)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-exclude=\f[I]COLUMNS\f[]
Don\[aq]t include these as causal conditions
.RS
.RE
.PP
For these three options, \f[I]COLUMNS\f[] may be specified by column
position or name.
Separate multiple \f[I]COLUMNS\f[] with commas.
.SS Analysis Parameters
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-simplify=\f[I]PARAMETER\f[]
How aggressively should the routine reduce the truth table?
Accepted parameters are:
.RS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
0\ \-\ Reduce\ truth\ table\ to\ primitive\ expressions\ 
1\ \-\ Reduce\ truth\ table\ to\ prime\ implicants\ (default)
2\ \-\ Reduce\ prime\ implicants\ (equivalent\ to\ fs/QCA\[aq]s
\ \ \ \ \ \ "complex\ solution")
3\ \-\ Reduce\ prime\ implicants\ using\ remainders\ as\ simplifying
\ \ \ \ \ \ assumptions\ (equivalent\ to\ fs/QCA\[aq]s\ "parsimonious
\ \ \ \ \ \ solution")
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-freq=\f[I]VALUE\f[]
Frequency threshold (default is 1)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-consist=\f[I]VALUE\f[]
Consistency threshold (default is 0.9)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-prop=\f[I]VALUE\f[]
Proportion threshold (default is 1.0)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-readtt=\f[I]FILE\f[]
Read in truth table from external file; don\[aq]t convert dataset to
truth table
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-input=\f[I]FILE\f[]
If absent, or when \f[I]FILE\f[] is \-, read standard input
.RS
.RE
.PP
\f[I]VALUE\f[] is a number ranging between 0.0 and 1.0.
For \-e, \f[I]FILE\f[] is a plain text representation of a truth table,
such as is produced by \f[B]suf\f[] or \f[B]gtt\f[].
For \-y, \f[I]FILE\f[] is a dataset.
.SS Diagnostics
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-dataset
Print dataset
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-D, \-\-Dataset
Print dataset and exit
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-truthtable
Print truth table
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-T, \-\-Truthtable
Print truth table and exit
.RS
.RE
.SS Other Options
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help and exit
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Output version information and exit
.RS
.RE
.PP
Mandatory arguments to long options are also mandatory for short
options.
.SH Differences between \f[B]suf\f[] and \f[B]fs/QCA\f[]
.PP
\f[B]suf\f[] uses the same "truth table algorithm" as \f[B]fs/QCA\f[]
and which is described in \f[B]Redesigning Social Inquiry\f[] (Ragin
2008).
However, there are a handful of important differences between
\f[B]suf\f[] and \f[B]fs/QCA\f[]:
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]suf\f[] supports "Impossible" conditions, combinations of causal
conditions that cannot occur.
If a truth table row is marked as "Impossible," that row will not be
included as a remainder when constructing the parsimonious solution.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]suf\f[] also supports fuzzy\-set contradictions, as described in
"Contradictions in fsQCA" (Rubinson 2011).
A contradiction is a truth table row in which the ratio of
consistent:inconsistent observations falls below a given threshold
(specified by \-\-prop).
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]suf\f[] does not provide an equivalent to \f[B]fs/QCA\f[]\[aq]s
"intermediate" solution.
As described in "Between Complexity and Parsimony" (Ragin and Sonnett
2004), it is often the case that a range of intermediate solutions can
be constructed for a given analysis.
Rubinson\[aq]s position is that it would therefore be misleading for
\f[B]suf\f[] to produce a single intermediate solution.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[B]suf\f[] eliminates \f[B]fs/QCA\f[]\[aq]s pop\-up prime implicant
chart.
In certain instances (known as "codominance" in Quine\-McCluskey
parlance), the QCA truth table reduction algorithm can produce more than
one solution covering a given observation (or set of observations).
When encountering such a situation, \f[B]fs/QCA\f[] pops up a prime
implicant chart for the user to resolve.
This tends to confuse even experienced QCA practitioners.
Instead, \f[B]suf\f[] simply returns all solutions.
The codominant solutions are easily identified because they will share
the same set of observations and their unique coverage will be 0.0.
It is then up to the researcher to determine which solutions to retain.
A researcher might choose to retain only one of the codominant
solutions, dropping the others as redundant.
Alternatively, a researcher might choose to retain multiple solutions
and argue that these observations are "overdetermined"\-\-that they
possess multiple combinations of causal conditions, any one of which are
sufficient to produce the outcome.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
bq(1), concov(1), consist(1), gtt(1), nec(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Claude Rubinson <cjr\@grundrisse.org>.
